Observations

    unique_id: A unique number assigned to each observation, this is not the same as the UID for the raw table
    Designation: The AAVSO Harvard Designation
    name: The AAVSO Name
    AUID: The AAVSO Unique Identifier
    JD: The Julian Date of the observation
    arrivaldate: The JD of when the observation was received by HQ (for electronically submitted observations)
    band: The observation's bandpass code, described in the bands table.
    fainterthan: If the object was not seen, then the magnitude given is the value of the faintest comp star seen. 1 is yes, 0 is no, 2 is the rare brighter than
    magnitude: The magnitude estimate
    uncertainty: Reported uncertainty by the observer
    uncertaintyhq: An uncertainty calculated by HQ based on check and comp stars values
    commentcode: Comment codes
    obscode: The AAVSO observer code
    comp1_C: The first comp star for visual observations, usually the label of the star on the AAVSO chart (112, 130, etc.)
    comp2_K: The second comp star for visual observations, the check star for photoelectric observations
    charts: The Chart ID submitted as the observer, usually in the YYMMDD form of a date.
    valflag: The validation flag
    obstype: A code used to indicate the method used to make an observation.
    HJD: The Heliocentric Julian Date.
    comments: Comments as submitted by the observer.
    airmass: The airmass as reported by the observer.
    transformed: If transformation coefficients were used, this is 1 for yes (0 for no).
    step: The step sequence (eg. A4V2B or V <A)
    mtype: 0 or null if standard; 1 if differential (*requires* the use of comp1_C); 2 if step (magnitude will read 0.0, "step" field will contain sequence information); 3 if observer is reporting "no flare" and not supplying a magnitude.
    Cmag: The comp star supplied magnitude for photoelectric observations.
    Kmag: The comp star measured magnitude for photoelectric observations.
    group: Observer defined set of observations of one object for use in color indexing.
    software: The photometry software used.
    source: A character denoting how the observation was received at HQ.
    organization: Tinyint field denoting an index referencing the organization an observer belongs to at the time the observation was made. This field references web_django.hq_person.organization.
    digitizer: The observer code of the person who *digitized* an archival record by another observer (e.g. an observation from the literature, keypunched by a volunteer -- this would be the volunteer's observer code.)
    pubref: The ADS BibCode or similarly-styled record indication the reference that the observation was taken from if it was a digitized observation. If this string is not an actual ADS BibCode, please precede it with the string "x_" and give the journal name, volume, and page number if available (e.g. "x_1908MmRASv58p34")
    credit: This field contains a three digit code which goes to the credits lookup table. It is used to give credit to another organization for use of the database (e.g. BAAVSS)


Bands

W indicates that the filter is choosable from WebObs. A bold indication indicates this is a new filter or a change as of June 2009. The shortName (used in the data download program, zapper, and other things) is given in parentheses.

    0, Visual (Vis.)
    1, Unknown (N/A)
    2, W, Johnson V (V)
    3, W, Johnson B (B)
    4, W, Cousins R (R)
    5, W, Cousins I (I)
    6, Orange (Orange)
    7, W, Johnson U (U)
    8, W, Unfiltered with V Zeropoint (CV)
    9, W, Unfiltered with Red Zeropoint (CR)
    10, Johnson R (RJ)
    11, Johnson I (IJ)
    13, Halpha (HA)
    14, Halpha-continuum (HAC)
    21, blue (Blue-Vis.)
    22, green, no longer in WebObs (Green-Vis.)
    23, red (Red-Vis.)
    24, yellow (Yellow-Vis.)
    26, W, K NIR 2.2micron (K)
    27, W, H NIR 1.6micron (H)
    28, W, J NIR 1.2micron (J)
    29, W, Sloan z (SZ)
    30, Stromgren u (STU)
    31, Stromgren v (STV)
    32, Stromgren b (STB)
    33, Stromgren y (STY)
    34, Stromgren Hbw (H-beta, wide) (STHBW)
    35, Stromgren Hbn (H-beta, narrow) (STHBN)
    40, W, Sloan u (SU)
    41, W, Sloan g (SG)
    42, W, Sloan r (SR)
    43, W, Sloan i (SI)
    44, PanSTARRS Z-short (ZS)
    45, PanSTARRS Y (Y)
    50, W, Tri-Color Blue (TB)
    51, W, Tri-Color Green (TG)
    52, W, Tri-Color Red (TR)
    55, Optec Wing A (MA)
    56, Optec Wing B (MB)
    57, Optec Wing C (MI)

Obstypes

This is an enum-type field so the value should be enclosed in single quote marks.

    1 for visual
    2 for CCD
    3 for PEP
    4 for wedge photometer
    5 for photographic
    6 for DSLR
    7 VISDIG (i.e. visual observation made from a digital image)
